>> Nina Zakharenko: So Python,
it's a programming language.
You might be surprised to learn that
Python is actually 30 years old.
It's probably older than
some of you in the room,
it's been around for a long time.
And during that time I feel like there
have been a couple of misconceptions that
have come up about Python.
Some people think that Python
is just a scripting language.
It's not, it's used that company is
from Reddit, Netflix, Dropbox, Quora.
There are tons of other companies
that make productive use of Python.
Some people say that Python doesn't scale,
that's also not true.
Instagram is the largest
installation of Django,
which is a Python web framework, and
they have 1 billion users,
is that number right?
I believe it's 1 billion.
Yep, they just hit the billion mark.
So, you might hear a little bit
about Python 2 versus Python 3,
you might hear a lot about it.
This part's a bit of a stain on
the python programming language.
Python 3 was released in 2008,
so it's 11 years old, and
it's adoption was really slow.
First and foremost because it took really
popular languages a fair amount of
time to port over their code,
but the debate is over now.
Python 2 is gonna reach end
of life in 2020, meaning that
important updates including maybe security
updates are gonna stop being released.
So this course and your code going forward
should always focus on Python 3 only.
Why Python?
Python is a language of open source,
and the language is open source.
You can look on GitHub right here.
And if you'd like,
if you advance in your Python journey and
you feel comfortable enough to contribute,
even to the documentation, you can.
Which can't be said for
a lot of other languages.
It also has a wide
variety of applications,
like AIML we talked about earlier.
There are tons of Python packages, SciPy,
NumPy, Pandas, PyTorch, all very popular.
Python has made the work that
scientists do so much easier.
It's been instrumental in a number
of breakthroughs and discoveries.
It can be used on hardware
microcontrollers.
Raspberry Pi started this at homemaker
movement of tinkering with hardware.
There are MicroPython and CircuitPython,
Python variance that can run on micro
controllers as small as a quarter.
Which is one of my hobbies, I love playing
around with those types of things.
There is web developments, so Django and
Flask are two hugely
popular web frameworks.
But then if you want to do scripting,
you can do that too.
It's very popular for DevOps and
configuration scripts, etc.
Python also has a really
rich standard library,
as well as the PyPi package index for
third-party packages.
In February of 2019,
it contained 167,000 of them.
And Python is considered
a batteries included language,
because the standard library also
contains a majority of the libraries and
packages that you might need
under standard application.
People believe that that's why Python
became popular in the first place.
And to me, one of the most incredible
thing about Python is the community.
The biggest yearly conference is PyCon US,
there are approximately 4,000 attendees.
There are lots of user groups worldwide,
a lot of them are listed, there's a wiki.
There are also many supportive groups for
women and nonbinary developers
such as PyLadies and Django Girls.
And these organizations have chapters
in most major cities across the US and
internationally.
Let's quickly talk about conventions.
So, in Python,
the most important convention is PEP8, and
there's kind of a lot to it.
So, we can look at this
site which is pep8.org,
it's a little bit of a standard on site.
So PEP8 is a style guide for Python code,
this is one of the nicest
parts of python code.
There's just a kind of this
globally accepted style guide,
if you have a link to it, it'll give you
suggestions when you're not following it.
And that makes most good
Python code look very similar,
makes it very easy to read,
you know what to expect.
I worked on some Java projects where we
had a debate and we didn't have a style
guide and some people would put their
opening curly brace on the same line, and
some people would put it on their
new lion, and it would make for
nightmare diffs, right?
Python really minimizes that.
So, I recommend looking
through this briefly.
But in the meantime let's
look at a few of these.
Indentation, it's four
spaces per indentation.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Four spaces per
indentation level is the standard here.
It'll tell you about tabs or
spaces, the maximum line length,
also comments, whitespace,
naming conventions.
So here's there some descriptive
naming styles, for example,
use lowercase with underscores,
capitalized words when using classes, etc.
Cuz kind of a lot here,
we'll talk about it when it pops up, but
when you hear me say PEP8,
you're know what it means.